framework/README.md, before:

# Agentify Framework

**Foundation for AI-assisted development.**

One-time setup. Safe defaults. Room to grow. Works with any AI tool.

---

## What This Is

A framework that gives AI coding agents (Copilot, Cursor, Claude, etc.) strong, consistent rules to follow. One prompt to install.

**Core value:**
1. **Strong agent rules** (concise & focused) that work immediately
2. **Automated setup** — one prompt, 3 questions, done
3. **KB/Skills/Workflows** — optional extensions for deeper context

**Philosophy**: Start with a solid foundation, grow as needed. Core rules → KB → Skills → complex agent systems.

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Copy to your project

Copy this `framework/` folder to your repo root as `.agentify/`.

### 2. Run setup

Ask your AI agent:
```
Run .agentify/setup.prompt.md
```

### 3. Answer 3 questions

- Project name?
- One-sentence description?
- Which AI tool? (Copilot/Cursor/Claude/Other)

Start with `.agentify/bootstrap-prompts/repo-scan.prompt.md` to generate KB drafts, then use `.agentify/questionnaires/kb-builder.md` after draft review to refine or complete KB files.

### 4. Done

Agent creates:
- `AGENTS.md` — Universal agent rules (concise & focused)
- `docs/` — Knowledge Base folder
- Skills & Prompts folders — Location depends on your AI tool
- Tool config (Copilot/Cursor/Claude)

---

## What Gets Created

Example structure (paths vary by tool):

```
your-project/
├── AGENTS.md              ← Agent reads this (all tools)
├── docs/                  ← Knowledge Base (all tools)
├── .github/               ← Skills/Workflows (Copilot)
│   ├── skills/            │  Or: .cursor/ (Cursor)
│   └── prompts/           │  Or: .claude/ (Claude)
├── [tool config]          ← .cursorrules, copilot-instructions.md, etc.
└── .agentify/             ← Source (don't modify)
```

---

## Core Rules in AGENTS.md

Every agent gets:

| Rule | What It Does |
|------|--------------|
| Honesty | Don't invent facts; mark unknowns as `TBD` |
| Stop-the-line | Pause on breaking/risky changes |
| Change safety | Additive changes over breaking |
| Verification | Check, don't assume |
| Security hygiene | No secrets in code/logs |
| Pattern discovery | Find existing patterns before writing new code |

---

## Layered Foundation

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  Layer 3: Skills & Workflows (optional)         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Layer 2: Knowledge Base (optional)             │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Layer 1: AGENTS.md (always)                    │  ← Setup creates this
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Start with Layer 1. Add more layers as your project needs grow.

---

## Optional: Improve Agent with KB

After setup, optionally build Knowledge Base:

### Option A: Auto-scan (recommended first)

Run `.agentify/bootstrap-prompts/repo-scan.prompt.md` — agent scans your repo, generates drafts, then (after approval) creates/updates KB files and optionally applies project-specific rules to `AGENTS.md`.

### Option B: Questionnaire (after draft review)

Run `.agentify/questionnaires/kb-builder.md` — answer questions to refine or complete KB files and optionally apply project-specific rules to `AGENTS.md`.

### Option C: Skills & Workflows

Run `.agentify/questionnaires/skills-builder.md` — agent reads KB files in `docs/` plus your answers, prepares create-or-update changes from templates, then asks `yes / edit / no` before writing skills (`*.skill.md`) and workflows (`*.prompt.md`).

**Ongoing maintenance default**: after architecture/domain/constraints/contract changes, check KB impact and update affected files in `docs/`.

---

## Framework Structure

```
.agentify/
├── README.md              # This file
├── AGENTS.template.md     # Template for generated AGENTS.md
├── setup.prompt.md        # One-prompt installation
├── questionnaires/        # KB building questionnaires
├── bootstrap-prompts/     # Auto-generation prompts
└── templates/             # KB, KB-draft, skills, workflow templates
```

---

## Adding Skills & Workflows

Use `.agentify/questionnaires/skills-builder.md` for KB-aware create-or-update flow with explicit confirmation (`yes / edit / no`) before writes.

Manual option:

**Skills** — teach agent specific expertise:
1. Copy `.agentify/templates/skills/skill.template.md`
2. Save as `[name].skill.md` in your tool's skills folder (e.g., `.github/skills/` for Copilot, `.cursor/skills/` for Cursor)

**Workflows** — repeatable procedures:
1. Copy `.agentify/templates/workflows/workflow.template.md`
2. Save as `[name].prompt.md` in your tool's prompts folder (e.g., `.github/prompts/` for Copilot, `.cursor/prompts/` for Cursor)

Use `**When to load**` and `**Trigger phrases**` in each skill file.
Use a `**Trigger**: "phrase 1", "phrase 2"` line in each workflow file.
Execution order: general rules in `AGENTS.md` -> matching workflow (if trigger) -> relevant skills (if trigger/topic).
If instructions conflict, priority is: `AGENTS.md` > workflow > skill.

---

## Customizing Rules

Edit `AGENTS.md` directly. It's your file after setup.

Add project-specific rules in the `Project-Specific Rules` section.

---

## Notes

- `.agentify/` is read-only source — don't modify
- `AGENTS.md` is generated — edit freely after setup
- KB, skills, workflows are optional but improve quality

Commit message:

Update agent guidelines and evaluation
Refine agent decision logic for proactive handoffs and knowledge base consultation.
Enhance framework evaluation with structured evidence collection and explicit confidence calibration rules.
Clarify the workflow for managing temporary knowledge base draft files, emphasizing required approval before publication.

framework/README.md, after:

# Agentify Framework

**Foundation for AI-assisted development.**

One-time setup. Safe defaults. Room to grow. Works with any AI tool.

---

## What This Is

A framework that gives AI coding agents (Copilot, Cursor, Claude, etc.) strong, consistent rules to follow. One prompt to install.

**Core value:**
1. **Strong agent rules** (concise & focused) that work immediately
2. **Automated setup** — one prompt, 3 questions, done
3. **KB/Skills/Workflows** — optional extensions for deeper context

**Philosophy**: Start with a solid foundation, grow as needed. Core rules → KB → Skills → complex agent systems.

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Copy to your project

Copy this `framework/` folder to your repo root as `.agentify/`.

### 2. Run setup

Ask your AI agent:
```
Run .agentify/setup.prompt.md
```

### 3. Answer 3 questions

- Project name?
- One-sentence description?
- Which AI tool? (Copilot/Cursor/Claude/Other)

Start with `.agentify/bootstrap-prompts/repo-scan.prompt.md` to generate KB drafts, then use `.agentify/questionnaires/kb-builder.md` after draft review to refine or complete KB files.

### 4. Done

Agent creates:
- `AGENTS.md` — Universal agent rules (concise & focused)
- `docs/` — Knowledge Base folder
- Skills & Prompts folders — Location depends on your AI tool
- Tool config (Copilot/Cursor/Claude)

---

## What Gets Created

Example structure (paths vary by tool):

```
your-project/
├── AGENTS.md              ← Agent reads this (all tools)
├── docs/                  ← Knowledge Base (all tools)
├── .github/               ← Skills/Workflows (Copilot)
│   ├── skills/            │  Or: .cursor/ (Cursor)
│   └── prompts/           │  Or: .claude/ (Claude)
├── [tool config]          ← .cursorrules, copilot-instructions.md, etc.
└── .agentify/             ← Source (don't modify)
```

---

## Core Rules in AGENTS.md

Every agent gets:

| Rule | What It Does |
|------|--------------|
| Honesty | Don't invent facts; mark unknowns as `TBD` |
| Stop-the-line | Pause on breaking/risky changes |
| Change safety | Additive changes over breaking |
| Verification | Check, don't assume |
| Security hygiene | No secrets in code/logs |
| Pattern discovery | Find existing patterns before writing new code |

---

## Layered Foundation

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  Layer 3: Skills & Workflows (optional)         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Layer 2: Knowledge Base (optional)             │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Layer 1: AGENTS.md (always)                    │  ← Setup creates this
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Start with Layer 1. Add more layers as your project needs grow.

---

## Optional: Improve Agent with KB

After setup, optionally build Knowledge Base:

### Option A: Auto-scan (recommended first)

Run `.agentify/bootstrap-prompts/repo-scan.prompt.md` — agent scans your repo, generates drafts, then (after approval) creates/updates KB files and optionally applies project-specific rules to `AGENTS.md`.
Drafts are saved in `temp/kb-drafts/` as review artifacts; keep them for reference and publish to `docs/` only after approval.

### Option B: Questionnaire (after draft review)

Run `.agentify/questionnaires/kb-builder.md` — answer questions to refine or complete KB files and optionally apply project-specific rules to `AGENTS.md`.

### Option C: Skills & Workflows

Run `.agentify/questionnaires/skills-builder.md` — agent reads KB files in `docs/` plus your answers, prepares create-or-update changes from templates, then asks `yes / edit / no` before writing skills (`*.skill.md`) and workflows (`*.prompt.md`).

**Ongoing maintenance default**: after architecture/domain/constraints/contract changes, check KB impact and update affected files in `docs/`.

---

## Framework Structure

```
.agentify/
├── README.md              # This file
├── AGENTS.template.md     # Template for generated AGENTS.md
├── setup.prompt.md        # One-prompt installation
├── questionnaires/        # KB building questionnaires
├── bootstrap-prompts/     # Auto-generation prompts
└── templates/             # KB, KB-draft, skills, workflow templates
```

---

## Adding Skills & Workflows

Use `.agentify/questionnaires/skills-builder.md` for KB-aware create-or-update flow with explicit confirmation (`yes / edit / no`) before writes.

Manual option:

**Skills** — teach agent specific expertise:
1. Copy `.agentify/templates/skills/skill.template.md`
2. Save as `[name].skill.md` in your tool's skills folder (e.g., `.github/skills/` for Copilot, `.cursor/skills/` for Cursor)

**Workflows** — repeatable procedures:
1. Copy `.agentify/templates/workflows/workflow.template.md`
2. Save as `[name].prompt.md` in your tool's prompts folder (e.g., `.github/prompts/` for Copilot, `.cursor/prompts/` for Cursor)

Use `**When to load**` and `**Trigger phrases**` in each skill file.
Use a `**Trigger**: "phrase 1", "phrase 2"` line in each workflow file.
Execution order: general rules in `AGENTS.md` -> matching workflow (if trigger) -> relevant skills (if trigger/topic).
If instructions conflict, priority is: `AGENTS.md` > workflow > skill.

---

## Customizing Rules

Edit `AGENTS.md` directly. It's your file after setup.

Add project-specific rules in the `Project-Specific Rules` section.

---

## Notes

- `.agentify/` is read-only source — don't modify
- `AGENTS.md` is generated — edit freely after setup
- KB, skills, workflows are optional but improve quality
